README.md, before:

# ARK AI

![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.2.0--alpha-blue)
![status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-alpha-orange)
![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%2B-green)
![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-purple)

> ⚠️ **Alpha Release**: This software is in active development. Features and APIs may change without notice.

A robust research assistant and intelligent semantic knowledge base repository for the academic study of consciousness, inspired by the Bhaktivedanta Institute.

## ✨ Features

### 🤖 Core Capabilities

- Advanced AI-powered research assistant
- Semantic knowledge base for consciousness studies
- Intelligent document search and analysis
- Interactive chat interface with citation support
- Document management system
- Real-time processing and responses
- Academic-focused research tools

### 📚 Document Processing

- Intelligent PDF processing and text extraction
- Smart document chunking with citation preservation
- Comprehensive metadata extraction
- Page-level content tracking
- Multi-format document support

### 🔍 Search & Retrieval

- Advanced semantic search with ChromaDB
- Hybrid search capabilities (semantic + keyword)
- Metadata filtering and faceted search
- Relevance scoring and ranking
- Batch processing support

### 📝 Citation System

- Robust source verification and citation tracking
- Wikipedia-style reference management
- Page-level citation linking
- Citation export in multiple academic formats
- Source integrity verification
- Citation network visualization

### 📊 Performance & Monitoring

- Comprehensive logging system
- Performance monitoring and metrics
- Error tracking and handling
- System health monitoring
- Resource usage optimization

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- Git
- Virtual environment (recommended)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository and create a virtual environment:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ark-ai.git
cd ark-ai
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
# or
.\venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
```

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

1. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env` file in the project root with:

```env
# API Keys
GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key

# Database Configuration
POSTGRES_USER=your_postgres_user
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_postgres_password
POSTGRES_DB=your_database_name
POSTGRES_HOST=your_host
POSTGRES_PORT=your_port

# Redis Configuration
REDIS_HOST=your_redis_host
REDIS_PORT=your_redis_port
REDIS_PASSWORD=your_redis_password
```

1. Run the application:

```bash
streamlit run app/frontend/Home.py
```

1. Access the application at `http://localhost:8501`

## 📁 Project Structure

```curl
ark-ai/
├── app/
│   ├── backend/
│   │   ├── agents/          # AI agents and LLM integration
│   │   ├── api/            # FastAPI endpoints
│   │   ├── processing/     # Document processing pipeline
│   │   ├── vector_store/   # Vector storage implementation
│   │   └── models.py       # Data models
│   ├── frontend/
│   │   ├── Home.py        # Main application entry
│   │   └── pages/         # Additional UI pages
│   └── utils/             # Shared utilities
├── data/                  # Data storage
│   ├── vector_store/     # ChromaDB storage
│   └── test_documents/   # Test documents
├── docs/                 # Documentation
├── logs/                 # Application logs
├── tests/               # Test suite
├── .env                # Environment variables
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
└── README.md
```

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Core Components

- **Frontend**: Streamlit
- **Backend**: FastAPI
- **Vector Store**: ChromaDB (with planned migration to PostgreSQL/pgvector)
- **AI/ML**: LangChain, Groq
- **Document Processing**: PyMuPDF, LangChain
- **Embeddings**: Sentence Transformers

### Dependencies

- fastapi >= 0.104.0
- streamlit >= 1.28.0
- langchain >= 0.0.350
- chromadb >= 0.4.22
- PyMuPDF >= 1.23.0
- sentence-transformers >= 2.2.2
- python-json-logger >= 2.0.7
- And more in requirements.txt

## 🔧 Development

### Setting Up Development Environment

1. Install development dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

1. Run tests:

```bash
pytest tests/
```

1. Manual testing:

```bash
python tests/manual_test.py
```

### Logging and Monitoring

The application includes comprehensive logging:

- Structured JSON logging
- Performance monitoring
- Error tracking
- Log rotation
- Component-specific logging

### Vector Store

Currently using ChromaDB for vector storage with planned migration to PostgreSQL/pgvector:

- Document storage and retrieval
- Similarity search
- Metadata filtering
- Batch processing

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository

1. Create and switch to a new branch:

```bash
git checkout -b feature-branch
```

1. Make changes and commit:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Description of changes"
```

1. Push changes:

```bash
git push -u origin feature-branch
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Special thanks to the Bhaktivedanta Institute for their support and guidance in developing this research tool for consciousness studies.

## 📝 Changelog

### v0.2.0-alpha (2024-12-16)

- Added multi-format document processing
- Enhanced logging and monitoring
- Improved error handling
- Updated documentation and branding to ARK AI

### v0.1.0-alpha (Initial Release)

- Basic PDF processing
- ChromaDB integration
- Simple search functionality
- Initial documentation

Commit message:

feat(logging): enhance CLI output with rich formatting and emojis 🎨
- Add new cli_logger.py utility for beautiful terminal output
- Integrate contextual emojis for different operations (🚀 startup, 🤖 AI, 🔍 search)
- Add color-coded output for different message types
- Update ResearchLibrarian and ChromaStore with enhanced logging
- Add developer work notes and documentation

This commit improves developer experience by making the terminal output more
informative and visually appealing. The new logging system provides better
visibility into system operations and makes debugging more intuitive.

Technical changes:
- Add rich library for terminal formatting
- Create CliLogger class with emoji mappings
- Add structured logging with timestamps and details
- Update core components to use new logging system

Resolves: #none
See also: #none

README.md, after:

# ARK AI

![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.2.0--alpha-blue)
![status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-alpha-orange)
![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%2B-green)
![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-purple)

> ⚠️ **Alpha Release**: This software is in active development. Features and APIs may change without notice.

A robust research assistant and intelligent semantic knowledge base repository for the academic study of consciousness, inspired by the Bhaktivedanta Institute.

## ✨ Features

### 🤖 Core Capabilities

- Advanced AI-powered research assistant
- Semantic knowledge base for consciousness studies
- Intelligent document search and analysis
- Interactive chat interface with citation support
- Document management system
- Real-time processing and responses
- Academic-focused research tools

### 📚 Document Processing

- Intelligent PDF processing and text extraction
- Smart document chunking with citation preservation
- Comprehensive metadata extraction
- Page-level content tracking
- Multi-format document support

### 🔍 Search & Retrieval

- Advanced semantic search with ChromaDB
- Hybrid search capabilities (semantic + keyword)
- Metadata filtering and faceted search
- Relevance scoring and ranking
- Batch processing support

### 📝 Citation System

- Robust source verification and citation tracking
- Wikipedia-style reference management
- Page-level citation linking
- Citation export in multiple academic formats
- Source integrity verification
- Citation network visualization

### 📊 Performance & Monitoring

- Enhanced CLI logging with contextual emojis
- Rich terminal output with color-coding
- Performance monitoring and metrics
- Error tracking and handling
- System health monitoring
- Resource usage optimization

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- Git
- Virtual environment (recommended)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository and create a virtual environment:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ark-ai.git
cd ark-ai
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
# or
.\venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
```

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

1. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env` file in the project root with:

```env
# API Keys
GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key

# Database Configuration
POSTGRES_USER=your_postgres_user
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_postgres_password
POSTGRES_DB=your_database_name
POSTGRES_HOST=your_host
POSTGRES_PORT=your_port

# Redis Configuration
REDIS_HOST=your_redis_host
REDIS_PORT=your_redis_port
REDIS_PASSWORD=your_redis_password
```

1. Run the application:

```bash
streamlit run app/frontend/Home.py
```

1. Access the application at `http://localhost:8501`

## 📁 Project Structure

```curl
ark-ai/
├── app/
│   ├── backend/
│   │   ├── agents/          # AI agents and LLM integration
│   │   ├── api/            # FastAPI endpoints
│   │   ├── processing/     # Document processing pipeline
│   │   ├── vector_store/   # Vector storage implementation
│   │   └── models.py       # Data models
│   ├── frontend/
│   │   ├── Home.py        # Main application entry
│   │   └── pages/         # Additional UI pages
│   └── utils/             # Shared utilities
├── data/                  # Data storage
│   ├── vector_store/     # ChromaDB storage
│   └── test_documents/   # Test documents
├── docs/                 # Documentation
├── logs/                 # Application logs
├── tests/               # Test suite
├── .env                # Environment variables
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
└── README.md
```

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Core Components

- **Frontend**: Streamlit
- **Backend**: FastAPI
- **Vector Store**: ChromaDB (with planned migration to PostgreSQL/pgvector)
- **AI/ML**: LangChain, Groq
- **Document Processing**: PyMuPDF, LangChain
- **Embeddings**: Sentence Transformers

### Dependencies

- fastapi >= 0.104.0
- streamlit >= 1.28.0
- langchain >= 0.0.350
- chromadb >= 0.4.22
- PyMuPDF >= 1.23.0
- sentence-transformers >= 2.2.2
- python-json-logger >= 2.0.7
- And more in requirements.txt

## 🔧 Development

### Setting Up Development Environment

1. Install development dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

1. Run tests:

```bash
pytest tests/
```

1. Manual testing:

```bash
python tests/manual_test.py
```

### Logging and Monitoring

The application includes comprehensive logging:

- Structured JSON logging
- Performance monitoring
- Error tracking
- Log rotation
- Component-specific logging

### Vector Store

Currently using ChromaDB for vector storage with planned migration to PostgreSQL/pgvector:

- Document storage and retrieval
- Similarity search
- Metadata filtering
- Batch processing

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository

1. Create and switch to a new branch:

```bash
git checkout -b feature-branch
```

1. Make changes and commit:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Description of changes"
```

1. Push changes:

```bash
git push -u origin feature-branch
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Special thanks to the Bhaktivedanta Institute for their support and guidance in developing this research tool for consciousness studies.

## 📝 Changelog

### v0.2.0-alpha (2024-12-16)

- Added multi-format document processing
- Enhanced logging and monitoring
- Improved error handling
- Updated documentation and branding to ARK AI

### v0.1.0-alpha (Initial Release)

- Basic PDF processing
- ChromaDB integration
- Simple search functionality
- Initial documentation
